# What is Double Up in Quotex? A Comprehensive Guide

## What is a Double-Up Strategy in Binary Options Trading?

Double-up strategy is considered more of a feature than a strategy,
although it can be considered as both. The \[double
up\](https://www.nasdaq.com/glossary/d/double-up) is a type of feature
that brokers provide that allows you to double your stake once the
trading starts. Doubling your stake means that the payout that you will
receive at the end of the contract will also double as the feature has
been applied in an existing trade. However, if the trader loses the
contract, the losses will be doubled as well.

[![](https://static.quotex.io/files/4_en/300_250.jpg)](https://traff.sbs/brokerqxlid)

## How to Use the Double-Up Feature in Binary Options Trading?

If the double-up feature is offered by your broker, you will require an
in-the-money option with a decent amount of time left before the
contract expires to avail of this feature. Assuming that you have all
these options checked on your list, you can now click on the double-up
feature given on the upper tab of your website. The double-up feature is
often denoted by 2x.

The key things to note when deciding to use a double-up feature are the
expiry time of the contracts as this feature will only be applied
towards the end of the contract's expiry and not at its beginning.

## Example

Let's understand the use of the double-up feature through an example for
better understanding.

A trader decides to trade the EUR/USD using binary options. They study
and analyze the market evaluating that the price of this pair of
currencies will increase in the near time.

This trader invests 400 Euros on a standard option. Eight minutes before
the expiry time, the trader sees that this prediction might hold for
this currency, so to increase the profits the trader uses the double-up
feature provided by their broker.

Luckily, things turned out to be as predicted and the trader is
in-the-money at the end of the contract. This meant that their profit
doubled to 800 Euros from 764 Euros, which would have been their
original profit without the double-up feature.

If in case the trader's prediction proved to be incorrect at the end of
the contract's expiry, their losses will be doubled up to 800 Euros as
well.

## Pros and Cons of the Binary Options Double-Up Strategy

### Pros:

-   Easy to understand
-   Easily implemented in different markets

### Cons:

-   All-or-nothing feature
-   Only available toward the end of the contract

## Final Words

A double-up feature is an exciting tool in the binary options trading
market. It has proved to be a blessing and curse for the traders. This
is because, as the feature can double your profits it can also double
your losses.

Some traders do not advise the use of this tool, especially for the
newbies of the binary options trade. This is because this tool could
easily lead to reckless decisions based on the hope for multifold
profits in one go. So to avoid this, one should properly analyze the
trends of the market and then apply this tool only if perfectly
confident in winnings -- it is better to gain your usual profit than
lose double your investment.

Try Quotex Now

